Git mini exo — Answers

## Part 1: Setup & config

First, I checked that Git was installed on my computer with:
git --version 
where git version 2.50.1 (Apple Git-155)

Then I configured my Git username and email with:
git config --global user.name "Lio0704"
git config --global user.email "lio-li-yao.suchet-wang@student-cs.fr"

Part 2: Create Your First Repository

I used the following commands:
mkdir my-first-repo
cd my-first-repo
git init
touch readme.txt

Part 3: Your First Commit

To see the current state of the repository, I used:
git status

To stage the file:
git add readme.txt

To commit it with the message "Add readme file":
git commit -m "Add readme file"

To see the commit history:
git log

Part 4: Make Changes

I edited readme.txt and added a new line of text.
After that, git status showed that the file had been modified but not staged yet. This means Git detected changes in the file, but those changes were not ready to be committed until I added them to the staging area.

Then I staged and committed the changes with:
git add readme.txt
git commit -m "Update readme file"

At this point, I had 2 commits.

Part 5: Exploration
	•	git diff shows the differences between the current version of the file and the previous committed version.
	•	git log --oneline shows a shorter and simpler version of the commit history, with one line per commit.

Part 6: Working with Branches

To list all branches: git branch
To create a branch called feature-script: git branch feature-script
To switch to it: git switch feature-script
To create and switch to a new branch called dev in one command: git switch -c dev
Then I switched back to feature-script: git switch feature-script
To verify the current branch, I used: git branch

Part 7: Create a Bash Script on a Branch

On the feature-script branch, I created install.sh: touch install.sh

Then I added this content: #!/bin/bash
echo "Starting installation..."
brew update
brew install wget
echo "Installation complete!"

I made the script executable with: chmod +x install.sh

Then I staged and committed it: 
git add install.sh
git commit -m "Add install script"

To check the history on this branch: git log --oneline

Part 8: Merge Branches

I switched back to the main branch: git switch main
Before merging, install.sh was not present because it only existed in the feature-script branch.

To merge the branch into main, I used: git merge feature-script

After that, install.sh appeared in the directory.
The commit history now also included the commit from the feature branch.

Finally, I deleted the branch with: git branch -d feature-script

Part 9: Push to GitHub

After creating a repository on GitHub called my-first-repo, I linked it with: git remote add origin https://github.com/your-username/my-first-repo.git

Then I pushed my commits with:
git push -u origin main

After refreshing GitHub, I could see all my files and commits online.

Part 10: Delete and Clone

I moved outside the project folder with: cd ..
Then I deleted the local repository: rm -rf my-first-repo 

To clone it again from GitHub:
git clone https://github.com/your-username/my-first-repo.git

Finally, I entered the cloned folder and checked the files:
cd my-first-repo
ls

